
Vagrant – We use Vagrant and Virtualbox to test our cookbook code and run our tests on our local workstations.  

Test Kitchen – Test Kitchen is the tool we use to manage our Vagrant configurations, configure our environment to mirror
Production in a meaningful way and run our tests.

Chef-Zero – Chef-Zero is a lightweight local Chef Server that our testing VMs use to mimic our live Chef environment.

ChefDK – The Chef Development Kit provided by Opscode bundles various Chef tools together.  The beauty of ChefDK is that it comes
with an embedded Ruby environment and the necessary Ruby Gems required by the tools.  This is a great improvement if you’ve ever had to 
deal with pre-ChefDK local Ruby/RVM configurations, fluctuating gem dependancies and breaking changes between tools.

 ChefDK comes with chef-client, Berkshelf, Test Kitchen, ChefSpec, 
 ,Foodcritic and more.
 
 Workstation: This is where knife is installed and the administrator work from here
 
 Cookbook: This is a bunch of recipes. Multiple Recipes can be grouped together to form a Cookbook. A Cookbook defines a scenario and contains everything that is required to support that scenario:

Recipes, which specifies the resources to use and the order in which they are to be applied
Attribute values
File distributions
Templates
Extensions to Chef, such as libraries, definitions, and custom resources
 
 Recipe:
 Written in Ruby, a recipe provide lines to achieve a task: Install a package, Start a service, etc.A Recipe is a collection of 
 resources that describes a particular configuration or policy. It describes everything that is required to configure part of a system. 
 The user writes Recipes that describe how Chef manages applications and utilities (such as Apache HTTP Server, MySQL, or Hadoop) and
 how they are to be configured.

These Recipes describe a series of resources that should be in a particular state, i.e. Packages that should be installed, services 
that should be running, or files that should be written.


 Add to Bookmark  Email this Post  10.7K     1
 
Chef Tutorial
Chef Tutorial is the second blog of Chef blog series. In my previous blog, I have explained what is Chef, Configuration Management and how Chef achieves Configuration Management with the help of a use-case of Gannett.

In this Chef Tutorial following topics will be covered:

Chef Architecture
Hands-on Demo

I am sure after reading my previous blog you must be curious to know how exactly Chef works. The first section of this Chef Tutorial blog will explain you the Chef architecture in detail, which will clear all your doubts.

Chef Tutorial – Chef Architecture
As shown in the diagram below, there are three major Chef components:

Workstation
Server
Nodes
 Chef Architecture - Chef Tutorial - Edureka

Chef Tutorial – Workstation

The Workstation is the location from which all of Chef configurations are managed. This machine holds all the configuration data that can later be pushed to the central Chef Server. These configurations are tested in the workstation before pushing it into the Chef Server. A workstation consists of a command-line tool called Knife, that is used to interact with the Chef Server. There can be multiple Workstations that together manage the central Chef Server.

Multiple Workstations - Chef Tutorial - Edureka

Workstations are responsible for performing the below functions:

Writing Cookbooks and Recipes that will later be pushed to the central Chef Server
Managing Nodes on the central Chef Server
Now, let us understand the above mentioned points one by one.

Writing Cookbooks and Recipes that will later be pushed to the central Chef Server

Recipes: A Recipe is a collection of resources that describes a particular configuration or policy. It describes everything that is required to configure part of a system. The user writes Recipes that describe how Chef manages applications and utilities (such as Apache HTTP Server, MySQL, or Hadoop) and how they are to be configured.

These Recipes describe a series of resources that should be in a particular state, i.e. Packages that should be installed, services that should be running, or files that should be written.

Later in the blog, I will show you how to write a Recipe to install Apache2 package on Chef Nodes by writing a ruby code in Chef Workstation.

Cookbooks: Multiple Recipes can be grouped together to form a Cookbook. A Cookbook defines a scenario and contains everything that is required to support that scenario:

Recipes, which specifies the resources to use and the order in which they are to be applied


Knife utility: 
This command line tool can be used to communicate with the central Chef Server from Workstation. Adding, removing, changing configurations of Nodes in a central Chef Server will be carried out by using this Knife utility. Using the Knife utility, Cookbooks can be uploaded to a central Chef Server and Roles, environments can also be managed. Basically, every aspect of the central Chef Server can be controlled from Workstation using Knife utility.

A local Chef repository: This is the place where every configuration component of central Chef Server is stored. This Chef repository can be synchronized with the central Chef Server (again using the knife utility itself).
